1. Basil Pesto Stuffed Mushrooms
Ingredients: 20 crimini mushrooms, washed and stems removed; 1 1/2 cups panko breadcrumbs; 1/4 cup melted butter; 3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley; 2 cups fresh basil leaves; 1/4 cup fresh Parmesan cheese; 2 tablespoons pumpkin seeds; 1 tablespoon olive oil; 1 tablespoon fresh garlic; 2 teaspoons lemon juice; 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
Directions: Heat the oven to 350 F. Line the mushroom caps upside down on a baking sheet. To prepare the topping, in a small bowl, combine the panko, butter and parsley; set aside. To prepare the filling, place the basil, cheese, pumpkin seeds, oil, garlic, lemon juice and salt in a food processor. Process until evenly mixed. Generously stuff the mushroom caps with the basil pesto filling. Sprinkle each mushroom with about 1 teaspoon of panko topping. Gently pat down the topping. Bake for 10 to 15 minutes or until golden brown.
2. Shrimp Ceviche
Ingredients: 1/2 pound raw shrimp, cut in 1/4-inch pieces; 2 lemons, zest and juice; 2 limes, zest and juice; 2 tablespoons olive oil; 2 teaspoons cumin; 1/2 cup diced red onion; 1 cup diced tomato; 2 tablespoons minced garlic; 1 cup black beans, cooked; 1/4 cup diced serrano chili pepper and seeds removed; 1 cup diced cucumber, peeled and seeded; 1/4 cup chopped cilantro
Directions: Place shrimp in a shallow pan and cover with juice from the lemon and lime, reserving the zest. Refrigerate for at least 3 hours or until shrimp is firm and white. Mix remaining ingredients in separate bowl and set aside while shrimp is cold cooking. When ready to serve, mix shrimp and citrus juice with remaining ingredients. Serve with baked tortilla chips.
3. Fresh tomato crostini
Ingredients: 4 plum tomatoes, chopped; 1/4 cup minced fresh basil; 2 teaspoons olive oil; 1 clove garlic, minced; Freshly ground pepper; 1/4 pound crusty Italian peasant bread, cut into 4 slices and toasted
Directions: Combine tomatoes, basil, oil, garlic and pepper in a medium bowl. Cover and let stand 30 minutes. Divide tomato mixture with any juices among the toast. Serve at room temperature.
4. Ginger-marinated grilled portobello mushrooms
Ingredients: 1/4 cup balsamic vinegar; 1/2 cup pineapple juice; 2 tablespoons chopped fresh ginger, peeled; 4 large portobello mushrooms (about 4 ounces each), cleaned and stems removed; 1 tablespoon chopped fresh basil
Directions: In a small bowl, whisk together the balsamic vinegar, pineapple juice and ginger. Place the mushrooms in a glass dish, stemless side up. Drizzle the marinade over the mushrooms. Cover and marinate in the refrigerator for about 1 hour, turning mushrooms once. Prepare a hot fire in a charcoal grill or heat a gas grill or broiler. Away from the heat source, lightly coat the grill rack or broiler pan with cooking spray. Position the cooking rack 4 to 6 inches from the heat source. Grill or broil the mushrooms on medium heat, turning often, until tender, about 5 minutes on each side. Baste with marinade to keep from drying out. Using tongs, transfer the mushrooms to a serving platter. Garnish with basil and serve immediately.
5. Tomato basil bruschetta
Ingredients: 1/2 whole-grain baguette, cut into six 1/2-inch-thick diagonal slices; 2 tablespoons chopped basil; 1 tablespoon chopped parsley; 2 cloves garlic, minced; 3 tomatoes, diced; 1/2 cup diced fennel; 1 teaspoon olive oil; 2 teaspoons balsamic vinegar; 1 teaspoon black pepper
Directions: Heat oven to 400 F. Toast baguette slices until lightly browned. Mix all other ingredients together. Spoon mixture evenly over toasted bread. Serve immediately.
6. Cinnamon rolls
Ingredients: 1 cup skim milk; 1/4 cup canola oil; 1/3 cup sugar; 1/4 teaspoon salt; 2 packages dry yeast (about 0.75 ounces per packet); 1/4 cup warm water; 1 egg; 2 egg whites; 3 cups all-purpose (plain) flour; 2 1/2 cups whole-wheat (whole-meal) flour Cooking spray; 2 tablespoons ground cinnamon; 3/4 cup brown sugar; 1/4 cup raisins; 1/2 cup frozen unsweetened apple juice concentrate, thawed
Directions: In a small saucepan, heat the milk until just below the boiling point. Don't boil. Stir in the canola oil, sugar and salt. Remove the milk mixture from the heat and cool until lukewarm. In a small bowl, combine yeast and water. Stir and set aside for 5 minutes. In a large bowl, beat the egg and egg whites using an electric mixer. Add in the yeast and milk mixture. Using a wooden spoon mix in the flours, 1 cup at a time, until a soft dough forms. (If you have a countertop mixer, use a dough hook and follow the manufacturer's directions.) Turn the dough out onto a generously floured work surface and, with floured hands, knead gently until the dough is smooth and elastic, about 5 minutes. Return the dough to the bowl and cover with plastic wrap. Let rise in a warm place until double in size, about 1 1/2 hours. Divide the dough in half and form into 2 balls. Cover with plastic and let sit for 10 more minutes. In a small bowl, combine the cinnamon, brown sugar and raisins. Spray an 11-by-14-inch pan with cooking spray. Using a rolling pin, roll each ball of dough into a 16-by-8-inch rectangle. Spray the dough with cooking/baking spray. Sprinkle each rectangle with half of the cinnamon mixture. Starting at the long side, roll up each rectangle. Slice each roll into 16 pieces and place on the prepared pan. Let rise until double in size, about 1 1/2 hours.* To make the glaze, heat the apple juice over medium heat. Cook until the juice is syrupy, about 5 to 7 minutes. Set aside. Heat oven to 350 degrees. Brush each roll with the apple juice. Bake until golden brown, about 15 minutes.* Serve warm. *If you want to freeze rolls for later, only bake them until the dough rises a bit more but hasn't browned. Cool partially baked rolls in pan. Wrap tightly in 2 layers of plastic wrap and freeze. When you want to use them, thaw in refrigerator. Then bake at 350 F for 8-10 minutes.
7. Peach floats
Ingredients: 1 can (15 ounces) peaches, drained, except for 1/2 cup juice; 4 cups vanilla ice milk; 32 ounces club soda or seltzer water; 1/2 cup reduced-fat whipped topping Ground nutmeg, to taste
Directions: In a small bowl, mash the peaches with a fork. Divide the mashed peaches into 4 glasses (12 ounces each). Add to each glass 2 tablespoons of the peach juice and 1 cup ice milk. Pour 1 cup soda or seltzer into the glasses. Top each drink with 2 tablespoons whipped topping and a dusting of nutmeg. Serve immediately.
8. Strawberries and cream
Ingredients: 1 1/2 cups fat-free sour cream; 1/2 cup brown sugar; 2 tablespoons amaretto liqueur; 1 quart fresh strawberries, hulled and halved (reserve 6 whole for garnish)
Directions: In a small bowl, whisk together the fat-free sour cream, brown sugar and liqueur. In a large bowl, add the halved strawberries and sour cream mixture. Stir gently to mix. Cover and refrigerate until well-chilled, about 1 hour. Scoop the strawberries into 6 colorful bowls or chilled sherbet glasses. Garnish with whole strawberries and serve immediately.
9. Baked chicken and wild rice with onion and tarragon
Ingredients: 1 pound boneless, skinless chicken breast halves; 1 1/2 cups chopped celery; 1 1/2 cups whole pearl onions; 1 teaspoon fresh tarragon; 2 cups unsalted chicken broth; 3/4 cup uncooked long-grain white rice; 3/4 cup uncooked wild rice; 1 1/2 cups dry white wine
Directions: Heat the oven to 300 F. Cut chicken breasts into 1-inch pieces. In a nonstick frying pan, combine the chicken, celery, onions and tarragon with 1 cup of the unsalted chicken broth. Cook on medium heat until the chicken and vegetables are tender, about 10 minutes. Set aside to cool. In a baking dish, stir together the rice, wine and remaining 1 cup chicken broth. Let soak for 30 minutes. Add the chicken and vegetables to the baking dish. Cover and bake for 60 minutes. Check periodically and add more broth if the rice is too dry. Serve immediately.
10. Baked salmon with Southeast Asian marinade
Ingredients: 1/2 cup pineapple juice (no sugar added); 2 garlic cloves, minced; 1 teaspoon low-sodium soy sauce; 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger; 2 salmon fillets, each 4 ounces; 1/4 teaspoon sesame oil; Freshly ground black pepper, to taste; 1 cup diced fresh fruit, such as pineapple, mango and papaya
Directions: In a small bowl, add the pineapple juice, garlic, soy sauce and ginger. Stir to mix evenly. Arrange the salmon fillets in a small baking dish. Pour the pineapple juice mixture over the top. Put in the refrigerator and marinate for 1 hour. Turn the salmon periodically as needed. Heat the oven to 375 F. Lightly coat 2 squares of aluminum foil with cooking spray. Place the marinated salmon fillets on the aluminum foil. Drizzle each with 1/8 teaspoon sesame oil. Sprinkle with pepper and top each with 1/2 cup diced fruit. Wrap the foil around the salmon, folding the edges to seal. Bake until the fish is opaque throughout when tested with the tip of a knife, about 10 minutes on each side. Transfer the salmon to warmed individual plates and serve immediately.
11. Balsamic roast chicken
Ingredients: 1 whole chicken, about 4 pounds; 1 tablespoon fresh rosemary or 1 teaspoon dried rosemary; 1 garlic clove; 1 tablespoon olive oil; 1/8 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper; 8 sprigs fresh rosemary; 1/2 cup balsamic vinegar; 1 teaspoon brown sugar
Directions: 
12. Grilled Asian salmon
Ingredients: 1 tablespoon sesame oil; 1 tablespoon reduced-sodium soy sauce; 1 tablespoon fresh ginger, minced; 1 tablespoon rice wine vinegar; 4 salmon fillets, each 4 ounces
Directions: In a shallow glass dish, combine sesame oil, soy sauce, ginger and vinegar. Add the salmon and turn to coat all sides. Refrigerate for 30 to 60 minutes, turning occasionally. Lightly oil grill and then heat to medium-high heat. Place salmon on grill and cook 5 minutes a side. Fish is ready when a knife blade inserted into the center reveals that the pink flesh is almost opaque. Serve warm.
13. Grilled pork fajitas
Ingredients: 1 teaspoon ground cumin; 1/2 teaspoon oregano; 1/2 teaspoon paprika; 1/4 teaspoon ground coriander; 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder; 1 pound pork tenderloin, cut into strips 1/2 inch wide and 2 inches long; 1 small onion, sliced 8 whole-wheat; flour tortillas, about 8 inches in diameter, warmed in the microwave; 1/2 cup shredded sharp cheddar cheese; 4 medium tomatoes, diced (about 3 cups); 4 cups shredded lettuce; 1 cup salsa
Directions: Prepare a hot fire in a charcoal grill or heat a gas grill or broiler to medium-high or 400 F. In a small bowl, stir together the cumin, oregano, paprika, coriander and garlic powder. Dredge the pork pieces in the seasonings, coating completely. Place the pork strips and onions in a cast-iron pan or grill basket. Grill or broil at medium-high heat, turning several times, until browned on all sides, about 5 minutes. To serve, spread an equal amount of pork strips and onions on each tortilla. Top each with 1 tablespoon cheese, 2 tablespoons tomatoes, 1/2 cup shredded lettuce and 2 tablespoons salsa. Fold sides of tortilla over the filling, then roll to close.
14. New York strip steak with whiskey-mushroom sauce
Ingredients: 2 New York strip steaks, each 4 ounces, trimmed of all visible fat; 1 teaspoon trans-free margarine; 3 garlic cloves, chopped; 2 ounces sliced shiitake mushrooms; 2 ounces button mushrooms; 1/4 teaspoon thyme; 1/4 teaspoon rosemary; 1/4 cup whiskey
Directions: Prepare a hot fire in a charcoal grill or heat a gas grill or broiler. Away from the heat source, lightly coat the grill rack or broiler pan with cooking spray. Position the cooking rack 4 to 6 inches from the heat source. Grill or broil the steaks until slightly pink on the inside, about 10 minutes each side, or until a food thermometer indicates 145 F (medium rare), 160 F (medium) or 170 F (well-done). In a small saucepan, heat the margarine over medium heat. Add the garlic, mushrooms, thyme and rosemary. Saute lightly until the mushrooms are tender, about 1 to 2 minutes. Remove from the heat and carefully add the whiskey (be careful not to let the alcohol flame). Stir for another minute. Top the steaks with the mushrooms mixture and serve immediately.
15. Orange-rosemary roasted chicken
Ingredients: 3 skinless, bone-in chicken breast halves, each 8 ounces; 3 skinless, bone-in chicken legs with thigh pieces, each 8 ounces; 2 garlic cloves, minced; 1 1/2 teaspoons extra-virgin olive oil; 3 teaspoons fresh rosemary or 1 teaspoon dried rosemary, minced; 1/8 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper; 1/3 cup orange juice
Directions: Heat the oven to 450 F. Lightly coat a baking pan with cooking spray. Rub each piece of chicken with garlic. Dab fingers in oil and rub with oil, and sprinkle with rosemary and pepper. Place the chicken pieces in the baking dish. Pour the orange juice over the chicken. Cover and bake for 30 minutes. Using tongs, turn the chicken and return to the oven until browned, about 10 to 15 minutes longer. Baste the chicken with the orange juice from the pan as needed to prevent it from drying out. Transfer the chicken to individual serving plates. Spoon orange juice from the pan over the top of the chicken and serve immediately.
16. Pasta with marinara sauce and grilled vegetables
Ingredients: 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, divided; 10 large fresh tomatoes, peeled and diced; 1 teaspoon granulated sugar; 1/2 teaspoon minced garlic; 2 tablespoons chopped onion; 1 tablespoon chopped fresh basil or 1 teaspoon dried basil; 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano; 1/8 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper; 2 red peppers, sliced into chunks; 1 yellow summer squash, sliced lengthwise; 1 zucchini, sliced lengthwise; 1 sweet onion, sliced into 1/4-inch-wide rounds; 8 ounces whole-wheat spaghetti
Directions: Start by making the marinara sauce. In a heavy skillet, heat 1 tablespoon of the olive oil over medium-high heat. Add tomatoes, sugar, garlic, chopped onion, basil, oregano and black pepper. Simmer uncovered until the sauce thickens, about 30 minutes. Prepare a hot fire in a charcoal grill or heat a gas grill or broiler. Away from the heat source, lightly coat the grill rack or broiler pan with cooking spray. Position the cooking rack 4 to 6 inches from the heat source. Brush the red peppers, squash, zucchini and sweet onion with the remaining olive oil. Place the vegetables on the grill rack or broiler pan. Grill or broil, turning as needed, until the vegetables are tender, about 5 to 8 minutes. Transfer the vegetables to a bowl and set aside. Fill a large pot 3/4 full with water and bring to a boil. Add the pasta and cook according to the directions on the package. Drain the pasta. Toss pasta with the sauce and grilled vegetables. Serve immediately.
17. Buffalo chicken salad wrap
Ingredients: 3 4-ounce chicken breasts (12 ounces total); 2 whole chipotle peppers; 1/4 cup white wine vinegar; 1/4 cup low-calorie mayonnaise; 2 stalks celery, diced (about 1/2 cup); 2 carrots, cut into matchsticks (about 1/2 cup); 1 small yellow onion, diced (about 1/2 cup); 1/2 cup raw rutabaga or jicama, cut into matchsticks; 4 ounces raw spinach, chopped (about 4 cups); 2 whole-grain tortillas (12-inch diameter)
Directions: Heat oven to 375 F or start grill. Bake or grill chicken breasts for about 10 minutes on each side until interior temperature is 165 F. Remove, cool and cube chicken. In a blender, puree chipotle peppers with white wine vinegar and mayonnaise. Place all ingredients except spinach and tortillas in a bowl and mix thoroughly. Place 2 ounces spinach and half the chicken mixture in each tortilla and wrap. Cut each wrap in half to serve.
18. Cream of wild rice soup
Ingredients: 1/2 tablespoon canola oil; 1 1/2 cups diced yellow onion; 1 cup diced carrot; 1 cup diced celery; 2 cloves garlic, minced; 1 1/2 cups chopped kale; 1 tablespoon minced parsley; 2 cups low-sodium vegetable stock; 1 teaspoon fennel seeds, crushed; 1 teaspoon ground black pepper; 1 cup unsalted prepared white beans (or about 1/2 of a 15.5 ounce can of white beans, rinsed and drained); 2 cups 1 percent milk; 1/2 cup wild rice, cooked
Directions: In a soup pot over medium heat, add canola oil and saute onion, carrot, celery and garlic until lightly brown. Stir in kale, parsley, stock and spices. Bring to a boil. In a blender, puree beans with milk. Add bean mixture to soup, bring to simmer and add rice. Cook for 30 minutes. Serve in warmed bowls.
19. Summer vegetable soup
Ingredients: 1 tablespoon olive oil; 1 yellow onion, chopped (about 1 cup); 3 cloves garlic, chopped; 4 plum (Roma) tomatoes, peeled and seeded, then diced; 1 tablespoon chopped fresh oregano or 1 teaspoon dried oregano; 1 teaspoon ground cumin; 4 cups no salt added vegetable stock or broth; 1 bay leaf; 1 carrot, peeled, halved lengthwise, and thinly sliced crosswise (about 1 cup); 1 yellow bell pepper, seeded and diced (about 1 cup); 1 zucchini, halved lengthwise and thinly sliced crosswise (about 1 cup); 1 tablespoon grated lemon zest; 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro (fresh coriander); 1/4 teaspoon salt; 1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
Directions: In a large saucepan, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the onion and saute until soft and translucent, about 4 minutes. Add the garlic and saute for 30 seconds; don't let the garlic brown. Add the tomatoes, oregano and cumin and saute until the tomatoes are softened, about 4 minutes. Add the stock and bay leaf and bring to a boil, then reduce the heat to medium low and bring to a simmer. Add the carrot and bell pepper and cook for 2 minutes. Add the zucchini and simmer until the vegetables are tender, about 3 minutes longer. Stir in the lemon zest and cilantro. Season with the salt and pepper. Discard the bay leaf. Ladle into individual bowls or mugs and serve immediately.
20. Zesty tomato soup
Ingredients: 1 can (10.5 ounces) condensed low-sodium, low-fat tomato soup; 1 can (10.5 ounces) filled with fat-free milk; 1 medium tomato, chopped; 1 tablespoon chopped fresh basil or cilantro; 2 tablespoons croutons; 1 tablespoon freshly grated Parmesan cheese
Directions: In a saucepan, add the soup and milk. Whisk together until smooth. Warm over medium heat 7 to 10 minutes, stirring frequently. Add in the chopped tomato and herbs. Cook an additional 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Ladle even amounts into individual bowls and garnish each serving with 1 tablespoon croutons and 1 1/2 teaspoons Parmesan. Serve immediately.
